Add Tests and Demos about "Sensitive Data Stored Unencrypted via SQLite" (#3534)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: best-practices/MASTG-BEST-0025.md

---
title: Encrypt Sensitive Data in Private Storage Locations
alias: encrypt-sensitive-data
id: MASTG-BEST-0025
platform: android

> knowledge: [MASTG-KNOW-0036, MASTG-KNOW-0037, MASTG-KNOW-0038, MASTG-KNOW-0041]

Reviewer: MASTG-KNOW-0036 is about enforcing updates. What is the correlation between that KNOW file and this BEST file?

Author: While creating this section the IDs were different. MASTG-KNOW-0036 was about storing data using SharedPreferences. I should have used dummy ID. I will modify my PR soon and apply your suggestions.

---

Limit local storage of sensitive data to cases where it is strictly required. Android's app-private directories provide isolation but do not protect data on rooted devices, compromised devices, or during physical extraction. Therefore, sensitive data stored locally must always be **encrypted at rest**.

## App Private Storage

> The following sandboxed locations (`/data/data/<package>/`) are private but not secure against privileged attackers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All app-private storage under `/data/data/<package>/` is private but not secure against privileged attackers. The following are common locations of the private storage and their common usage:
```

- `filesDir` – Internal app files.
- `noBackupDir` – Internal files excluded from Auto Backup.
- `databases` – SQLite databases.
- `shared_prefs` – SharedPreferences.

> Because sandbox isolation does not mitigate elevated access, **plaintext sensitive data must not be stored** in these locations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under normal Android sandboxing, other apps cannot directly read these files. However, if the app data directory becomes accessible, for example on a rooted or compromised device or through backup extraction, any unencrypted values stored in these locations could be extracted.

Therefore, it's recommended to encrypt the sensitive data, even if it's in the app private storage.
```
